[docs] Expo Module API tutorial (#19801)
expo/expo: docs/pages/modules/get-started.mdx

---
title: Get started
---

import { CodeBlocksTable } from '~/components/plugins/CodeBlocksTable';
import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

> There are two ways to get started with the Expo Module API: you can either initialize a new module from scratch or add the Expo Module API to an existing module. This guide will walk you through creating a new module from scratch, and the ["Integrating in an existing library" guide](/modules/existing-library) covers the latter case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two ways to get started with the Expo Module API: you can either initialize a new module from scratch or add the Expo Module API to an existing module. This guide will walk you through creating a new module from scratch, and the ["Integrating in an existing library" guide](./existing-library.mdx) covers the latter case.
```
But let's wait for the confirmation from @Simek

Reviewer 2: I prefer using full links over relative ones, but this is fine both ways. For the extension, as discussed many time already we can just skip it, which should be the default approach. The test links script in question, which earlier required those extensions seems to work now fine, but we also did not run this script for a 1 year plus because it result in 500+ warnings (not always correct anyway, even before MDX v2 and extension change). So TL/DR, link is fine as is.

## 1. Creating a new module

To create a new Expo module from scratch, run the `create-expo-module` script as shown below. The script will ask you a few questions and then generate the native Expo module along with the example app for iOS and Android that uses your new module.

<Terminal cmd={[`$ npx create-expo-module my-module`]} />

## 2. Running the example project

> **Note:** If you're using Windows, you can open the example project by opening the `android` and/or `ios` directory in Android Studio and Xcode respectively,

Navigate to the module directory and then open the iOS and/or Android example project by running the following commands:

<Terminal cmd={[`$ cd my-module`, `$ npm run open:android`, `$ npm run open:ios`]} />

Now, you can run the example project on your device or simulator/emulator. When the project compiles and runs, you will see "Hello world! 👋" on the screen.

> ## 3. Making a change

Reviewer 2: Just a nit, byt we should list Android before iOS.

### iOS

> Open up `MyModuleModule.swift` in Xcode (<kbd>⌘+o</kbd> or <kbd>ctrl+o</kbd> and search for `MyModuleModule.swift`) and change the `hello` method to return a different string. For example, you can change it to return `"Hello world! 🌎🍎"`. Re-build the app and you should see your change.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Open up `MyModuleModule.swift` in Xcode (<kbd>⌘</kbd> + <kbd>o</kbd> or <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>o</kbd> and search for `MyModuleModule.swift`) and change the `hello` method to return a different string. For example, you can change it to return `"Hello world! 🌎🍎"`. Re-build the app and you should see your change.
```

Corrected keyboard shortcuts.

Reviewer: Adding one change to Simek's suggestion: isn't `rebuild` more common than `re-build`?
```suggestion
Open up `MyModuleModule.swift` in Xcode (<kbd>⌘</kbd> + <kbd>O</kbd> or <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>O</kbd> and search for `MyModuleModule.swift`) and change the `hello` method to return a different string. For example, you can change it to return `"Hello world! 🌎🍎"`. Rebuild the app and you should see your change.
```

### Android

> Open up `MyModuleModule.kt` in Android Studio (<kbd>⌘+o</kbd> or <kbd>ctrl+o</kbd> and search for `MyModuleModule.kt`) and change the `hello` method to return a different string. For example, you can change it to return `"Hello world! 🌎🤖"`. Re-build the app and you should see your change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open up `MyModuleModule.kt` in Android Studio (<kbd>⌘+o</kbd> or <kbd>ctrl+o</kbd> and search for `MyModuleModule.kt`) and change the `hello` method to return a different string. For example, you can change it to return `"Hello world! 🌎🤖"`. Rebuild the app and you should see your change.
```
